it's a very difficult thing to make a
youtube video about an academic essay
especially if the point of your video is
to encourage people to take the time to
click on the link below the video and
actually read that essay be much easier
for me to actually make a video
criticizing the essay finding fault with
it or making a riposte do it or response
to it or just presenting my own argument
in another direction this is an essay
that evaluates what's been going on in
the so called effective altruism
discourse effective altruism effective
activism these different agencies within
veganism animal rights and ecology that
claim to put a number that claim to
bring science and mathematical clarity
to the question of what is and what is
not effective in the promotion of
veganism animal rights and ecology quite
a few of the book reviews of posted on
this channel in the last few months have
tackled this topic because the books I
was reviewing variously have chapters
dealing with it perhaps most famously
Gary francais own a I have a great
discussion about his latest book on this
channel will for an hour long Gary Fred
Sione just frothing at the mouth says
it's a scam the whole field is garbage
and worthless and it's very hard for an
outsider to accept that claim right it's
kind of like just the the title the
title of black lives matter no matter
how disgraceful whatever that agency's
been doing lately he happens to be no
matter how bad the latest headlines in
the newspapers are the fact that their
name is black lives matter kind of makes
them difficult to criticize who could
possibly oppose an organization called
black lives matter in the same way
animal charity evaluator zay siiii the
flag they're waving is the flag of
effective activism doesn't everyone want
activism to be effective in the same
sense doesn't everyone want black lives
to matter doesn't everyone want less
police brutality doesn't anyone want
activism and altruism to be effective
these seem like ideas
that are so simple they cannot possibly
be bad and misleading and false and what
this essay shows you step-by-step blow
by blow is just how cancerous
the effective activism movement is
within veganism animal rights and
ecology all right it's mind-blowing now
here's the caveat I would say the first
thirty percent of this essay does
require some background in the social
sciences to really understand now if you
read it without that background the main
thing that you're just not going to pick
up on is how outrageous the examples
being given are so this analysis when it
presents the math it just in an
understated way tells you what the
numbers are and then tells you how these
highly politicized charities or agencies
misrepresent those numbers so if you
don't get what's going on it's
jaw-dropping it's shocking but he does
not throw in the kind of the kind of
adjectives that you need leave it at
that this essay easily could have took
it on a much more kind of animated tone
and said to you you know this is
unbelievable this is mind-blowing and it
should have because this is an essay
that supposed to mean er this isn't a
peer-review dry academic essay so for
the first thirty percent you may not if
you don't have that background if you
can't see just what is wrong with the
math as it's being broken down for you
there are some paragraphs here you
probably want to skim or you want to
skip over if you're not getting the
point but i would say seventy percent of
this article anybody can understand I
mean you like to give you an example of
something that does require any
knowledge of math or you know
mathematics and the social science and
social science physics at one point this
essay gets into the horrifying facts
surrounding so-called cage-free hens and
the excuses and lies that are made for
the promotion of cage free chicken
production and free-range chicken
production and the horrible brutal
reality of how there is a really good
argument
that cage free is actually worse for the
chicken they suffer more and again it's
written in this very dry factual way it
doesn't say this stuff is mind-blowing
as it's unbelievable but it is
mind-blowing is unbelievable and that
section of the essay you don't none of
the statistics matter none of the math
matters it's giving you a persuasive
another section the essay that's just
dealing with the fact that these are
supposedly scientific these mostly
social scientists helping veganism find
its footing in the future and the
reality is they're really in a very
corrupt way promoting charities that are
friends of friends there in a dishonest
way promoting some charities and not
promoting others and they're not
following their you know their supposed
methodology that again you don't need a
background in math to appreciate in some
if you read this essay from beginning to
end you're going to see that even though
effective altruism sounds like a cause
sounds like an idea we all can support
and we all must support this is another
shocking and horrifying example of how
within veganism good intentions have
paved the road to hell and we're a
little bit of money was put together and
donated to these agencies there was a
little bit of potential do something
positive and it has been squandered in
the worst way imaginable largely for
ideological reasons one of the most
hilarious parts the essay deals with
this crackpot theory that vegans ought
to care about the welfare not just of
actual animals but of virtual animals of
digital animals that only exist in video
games I'm not kidding you it's in there
and the completely insane belief from my
perspective that vegans ought to get
involved with providing health care to
wild animals like to a bears and
elephants in the wild and and even the
idea it's included in this essay it's an
important idea for us to be able to
refute that because vegans should try to
eliminate animal suffering they should
actually try to eliminate the wilderness
itself because life in the wild
inevitably both suffer animals there is
a lot of content
in this essay and all I can do in this
video is give a big shout into it give
you the link below and beg you to take
the time because this shines a
flashlight I can't even say it's on the
dirty little secret within veganism in
the last five years because a lot of
guys like France iana have been
screaming about this what this does is
let you know that this this tree is
rotten from root to branch and even
though I'd done a lot of reading about
this problem before and about the
particular charities and agencies
involved in this essay before I always
assume that I was only looking at the
worst of the worst a few little problems
here and there I assumed that somewhere
there was some kind of silver lining in
the cloud and this essay for me kind of
closes the door on that and makes me
think wow we have to learn from this
mistake but we definitely have to look
at this chapter of what happened within
the vegan movement as a mistake